Adding Foundry Integration (Alpha Version) Readme (#312)
Certora/Documentation: docs/cvl/foundry-integration.md

Foundry Integration (Alpha)
=================

Certora's Foundry Integration allows running foundry fuzz tests that exist for a project. Instead of executing the tests

> as fuzz tests for all inputs explicitly, the tests will be formally verified using the Certora Prover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> This will yield higher guarantees of correctness as all inputs will be evaluated and tested. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The prover will yield higher guarantees of correctness than Foundry as all inputs will be evaluated. 
```

While fuzzing is not as complete as formal verification (a fuzzer might “miss” some inputs that would expose a bug), 

> writing fuzz tests via Foundry is often easier for developer since it uses the same Solidity language as the smart contracts themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
writing fuzz tests via Foundry is often easier since it uses Solidity.
```
No need to complicate this - our readers are developers

> Foundry has tooling for writing fuzz tests on smart contracts, see [Foundry Documentation](https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/fuzz-testing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This part of the documentation explains how to utilize the Certora Prover to formally verify tests that are written as Foundry fuzz tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```{caution}
This feature of the Certora Prover is in alpha state, so issues/unimplemented features are expected. Please contact us if you encounter 
any issue.
```

# Usage

There is a minimum of 2 required files to get the Prover to verify Foundry fuzz tests: A `.spec` file (written in CVL), and a `.conf` file. 

> - First, we need a `.spec` file written in CVL that will tell the Prover what to verify. The file is very simple, and in the minimal case 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First, we need a `.spec` file written in CVL to tell the Prover what to verify. The file is very simple, and in the minimal case 
```

has exactly one line:

```solidity
use builtin rule verifyFoundryFuzzTests;
```

- Second, we need a `.conf` file that will provide the Prover the information of which contract to verify, and what spec file to use. 
A minimal `.conf` file will look like this:

```json
{
  "files": [
    "path/to/file/with/Foundry/fuzz/tests.sol:<name_of_contract_containing_the_tests>",
  ],
  "verify": "name_of_contract_containing_the_tests:path/to/spec/file.spec",
  "foundry_tests_mode": true,
}
```

- Now, to run the tests, execute:
`certoraRun path/to/conf/file.conf`
- You will receive a link to a report containing the results of the run.

> For a full running example, please also see our [Example Repository](https://github.com/Certora/Examples/).

Reviewer: Do we have a more specific example link we can give?

Author: ```suggestion
For a full running example, please also see our [Foundry Integration Examples](https://github.com/Certora/Examples/tree/master/FoundryIntegration).
```

# Key differences vs. Foundry fuzz testing

In Foundry, fuzz tests start with a blank state as the initial state (i.e. all storage fields are explicitly set to `0`), and one can implement 
a `setUp()` function in order to bring the state to whatever initial state one wants to run the tests in. In contrast, the Prover starts with 
an arbitrary initial state and does _not_ assume all storage fields to be initialized with 0 by default. This could cause the Prover to find 

> spurious counter examples. For example, a fuzz test may assumes that a storage value of `balance` is zero for all addresses and the Prover may 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spurious counter examples. For example, a fuzz test may assume that a storage value of `balance` is zero for all addresses and the Prover may 
```

choose some other initial state violating this basic assumption of the test. 

> To restrict the Prover's search space to match the setup of the foundry test, it's possible write a special CVL function  `init_fuzz_tests` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restrict the Prover's search space to match the setup of the Foundry test, it's possible write a special CVL function  `init_fuzz_tests` 
```

> To restrict the Prover's search space to match the setup of the foundry test, it's possible write a special CVL function  `init_fuzz_tests` 

Reviewer: It's more than possible, it is necessary, no?

Author: It depends on the code you are verifying. For instance for verifying library code this may not be required.

that acts as a setup in CVL. 

```solidity
override function init_fuzz_tests(method f, env e) {
  // your initial state assumptions here
}
 ```

> Depending on your fuzz test, it may be required to use the `reset_storage` command in the `init_fuzz_tests` function. This will explicitly set all 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your fuzz test, you may need to use the `reset_storage` command in the `init_fuzz_tests` function. This will explicitly set all 
```

> storage fields of a contract to `0` before running the test. Alternatively, one could try to add a call the `setUp()` function in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
storage fields of a contract to `0` before running the test. Alternatively, one could try to add a call to the `setUp()` function in the 
```

`init_fuzz_tests` function - please note that the `init_fuzz_tests` is an empty method by default.

# Known Limitations 

> - Foundry's [Invariant testing](https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/invariant-testing) is not supported, i.e. foundry tests prefixed with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Foundry's [Invariant testing](https://book.getfoundry.sh/forge/invariant-testing) is not supported, i.e. Forge tests prefixed with 
```

- One of the usual usages of the `setUp()` function is to create new contract instances for testing.
When setting up the Prover run, the way to handle such storage references to other contracts is to use linking. If, for example,
 we have the following test code

```solidity
contract TestContract is Test {
  MyContract myContract;
	
  function setUp() external {
    myContract = new MyContract();
  }
  ...
}
```

then add to the `.conf` file:

```json
  "files": [
    "...",
    "path/to/MyContract.sol"
  ],
  "link": [
    "...",
    "TestContract:myContract=MyContract"
  ]
```

This way when the Prover encounters `myContract.foo()` it knows what the implementation of `foo` is and is able to inline it.

- Only a subset of the Foundry cheatcodes are currently implemented.
The implemented cheatcodes include `vm.assume`, all `assert*` cheatcodes, `vm.expectRevert`, `prank`, `startPrank`, `stopPrank`, 
`warp`, and `deal`. Some other cheatcodes are irrelevant and are ignored, and many cheatcodes are not yet supported. One could 
recognize these by checking the **Contracts Call Resolutions** tab of the report - unimplemented cheatcodes will appear there 

> as an unresolved calls (which will usually lead to [havocs](https://docs.certora.com/en/latest/docs/user-guide/glossary.html#term-havoc) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as unresolved calls (which will usually lead to [havocs](https://docs.certora.com/en/latest/docs/user-guide/glossary.html#term-havoc) 
```

and therefore spurious counter examples). In this case, please contact Certora so we can implement the required cheatcode.

> - Note that `verifyFoundryFuzzTests` is just one rule that is available to you, the second being `verifyFoundryFuzzTestsNoRevert`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Note that `verifyFoundryFuzzTests` is just one of the rules available to you; the second is `verifyFoundryFuzzTestsNoRevert`. 
```

> The latter rule ignores reverting paths in the test function (this  is as opposed to the regular definition of foundry tests that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latter rule ignores reverting paths in the test function (this is as opposed to the regular definition of foundry tests that 
```

will fail if a revert happens in the test function). Foundry tests work by running the test function and failing if the function 

> reverted, and the Prover’s builtin rule `verifyFoundryFuzzTests` will also fail in this case. However, it may happen that there 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reverted, and the Prover’s builtin rule `verifyFoundryFuzzTests` will also fail in this case. However, the Prover may find spurious reverts
```

> are spurious reverts found by the Prover (e.g. if some call is unresolved, it may assume that the call revert, and the revert propagates up).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g. if some call is unresolved, it may assume that the call revert, and the revert propagates up).
```

> In some cases however, we do not expect the test to ever have an explicit revert occur, but instead want to use the `assert*` 

Reviewer: Suggestion to rewrite this part:

In cases where no explicit revert is expected, and the goal is to verify values or state using `assert*` cheatcodes, you can use `verifyFoundryFuzzTestsNoRevert`. This ignores all code paths that lead to a revert while still verifying the `assert*` cheatcodes.

cheatcodes to verify some values/state. In this case one could use `verifyFoundryFuzzTestsNoRevert` instead, which completely 
ignores any path in the code that leads to a revert, but will still verify the `assert*` cheatcodes.

> - In Foundry, the `vm.expectRevert` cheatcode could optionally get a specific revert reason and then Foundry will check that 

Reviewer: Suggestion to rewrite this bullet:

In Foundry, the `vm.expectRevert` cheatcode can optionally take a specific revert reason. Foundry verifies both that the test function reverted and that it reverted with the specified reason. In contrast, the Prover does not analyze the revert reason. As a result, if the test function reverts for a reason other than the expected one, the test will still be marked as successful.
